
mrchecker
----------

A portable (linux and opensolaris at least) pure python raid health checking script.

Each manufacturer of raid cards seems to have their own goofy command line program to monitor
their brand of card - but they're all different (very) and inconsistent. What was wanted was 
a common interface. raid-check provides that. 

Some raid cards (and linux software raid) provide their own monitoring structures - but being all
different, require custom configs. And the areca needs additional network ports to work.
This script abstracts all that away, AND when possible determines other useful info like the 
serial numbers of the drives (when the info is available from the raid tool).


Requirements:
You need python 2.4 (2.4 was chosen as the shipping version in both rhel/centos-5 and opensolaris 2009.06)
and the appropriate command line tool for your raid card. [which I should document here]

Python 2.3 doesn't include subprocess. I haven't yet tried 2.3 + subprocess. There may be other missing deps.


Supported Cards:
1.0 support 3ware cards using tw_cli, 3 different models of areca controllers with cli64 or cli32, and 
megaraid cards using the horrific MegaCli program.

Additional models of areca should be fairly straightforward to support. 


Usage:
for interactive use:
raid-check --type [--check-all] [--dump-details] [--verbose] [--debug] [--syslog]

for automated (cron job) use:
raid-check --type --cron

--cron turns syslogging and check-all options on, and everything else off.
--type is one (and only one) of --3ware or --areca or --megaraid.


License:
None yet. (BSD, Apache or GPL will be chosen)


Future Improvements:
1. Linux software raid (in development) might also include lvm to match zpool/zfs functionality.
2. Opensolaris Zpool/zfs  
3. LSI cards using cfggen
4. Adaptec aacraid
5. Autoprobe the type of cards available from lspci or scanpci output.


Bug Reports:
Please send bug reports including relevant details to 
Hunter Matthews <hunter@pobox.com>


14Jun2010

